Edge BYOOS (#1277)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/06-integrations/00-byoos.md

---
title: "Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS)"
metaTitle: "Bring your own OS (BYOOS)"

> metaDescription: "Learn how to use a custom Operating System with a cluster profile."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: "Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS) pack in Palette."
```

hiddenFromNav: true
type: "integration"
category: ['operating system']
logoUrl: "https://registry.dev.spectrocloud.com/v1/spectro-proxy/blobs/sha256:b6081bca439eeb01a8d43b3cb6895df4c088f80af978856ddc0da568e5c09365?type=image/png"
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS) 

> The [Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS)](/https://docs.spectrocloud.com/cluster-profiles/byoos) enables the ability for you to use a custom Operating System (OS) with Palette. Palette comes with several OS out-of-the-box, but for some users, the existing list of OS may not meet their needs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS)](/https://docs.spectrocloud.com/cluster-profiles/byoos) enables you to use a custom Operating System (OS) with Palette. Palette comes with several operating systems out-of-the-box, but the existing OS list may not meet all users' needs. 
```

> Using your custom OS provides several benefits, including the ability to control your own dependencies, improve performance, and ensure compatibility with your existing applications. With BYOOS, you can choose the OS that best fits your needs, whether it's a commercial or open-source distribution, and integrate it with your Kubernetes clusters. The BYOOS pack can be used with both Edge and non-Edge environments. 

Reviewer: @karl-cardenas-coding From an earlier comment/question in this PR - so it sounds customers choose the OS they want to use. They don't create it. Earlier I think I read they create it, which doesn't sound accurate.

Maybe users can customize an OS of their choice?

# Versions Supported

**1.0.x**

<br />

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Edge" key="edge">

## Prerequisites 

> To use the Edge BYOOS pack, you must have the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> To use the Edge BYOOS pack, you must have the following:

Reviewer: Many Prerequisites don't have an intro sentence. This one can safely be removed.

<br />

> - The Edge Provider images are created and uploaded to a container registry. Refer to the [Bring Your Own OS](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-kairos-os) guide to learn how to create a custom OS. Refer to the [Build Images](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-images) guide for steps on how to create the Edge artifacts and how to upload your custom OS to a registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edge Provider images you have created and uploaded to a container registry. Refer to the [Bring Your Own OS](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-kairos-os) guide to learn how to create a custom OS. Refer to the [Build Images](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-images) guide for steps on how to create the Edge artifacts and how to upload your custom OS to a registry.
```

Reviewer: Do we need to say "Edge Provider OS images you have created and uploaded ... " ?

- Palette 3.3.0 or greater.

## Parameters

The BYOS Edge OS pack supports the following parameters. 

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                            | Type |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------|
| `pack:content:` | Specifies the content of the **BYOS Edge OS** pack. | map |
| `pack.content.images` | Specifies a list of OS images to use with the pack. | list |
| `pack.content.images.image` | An OS image to use with the pack. | string|

> | `system.uri` | The system URI specifies the BYOOS image's location. | string|  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `system.uri` | The system URI specifies the location of BYOOS image. | string|  
```

  ```yaml
  pack:
  content:
    images: 
      - image: '{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}'
      # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0 
      # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0 
    
  options: 
    system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
  ```

## Usage

BYOOS enables you to use a custom OS for your Edge host. You can use this feature to customize the desired specifications of your OS layer in the Edge host. You can reference the custom OS through the BYOOS pack.

> To use a custom OS, you must include all the Edge artifacts and provider images required by the Edge Installer in the custom OS. Refer to the [Bring Your Own OS](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-kairos-os) guide for steps on how to create a custom OS that includes all the required components for the Edge Installer.

Reviewer: In the first sentence, is "provider" correct, or is "provide" intended?

Author: The term is "Provider Images."

Reviewer 2: It's just provider

Select the BYOOS pack and fill out the required parameters during the cluster profile creation process. The `system.uri` parameter specifies the location of the BYOOS image. Refer to the [Build Images](/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/build-images) guide to learn how to create Edge Artifacts.

![A view of the Kubernetes pack editor with a YAML configuration](/clusters_site-deployment_model-profile_byoos-pack-yaml.png)

</Tabs.TabPane>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Non-Edge" key="Non-Edge">

## Prerequisites 

To use the non-Edge BYOOS pack, you must have the following:

<br />

> - A custom OS you created is available. Refer to the [Create Images with Image Builder](/cluster-profiles/byoos/image-builder) guide to learn how to create a custom OS for Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A custom OS that you created. Refer to the [Create Images with Image Builder](/cluster-profiles/byoos/image-builder) guide to learn how to create a custom OS for Palette.
```

## Parameters

The following is a list of parameters required when using the BYOOS pack.

<br/>

| Parameter            | Description                                            | Type |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---|

> | `osImageOverride` | The image ID used as the base OS layer. This is the image ID as assigned in the infrastructure environment it belongs to. Example: `ami-0f4804aff4cf9c5a2` | string|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `osImageOverride` | The image ID used as the base OS layer. This is the image ID as assigned in the infrastructure environment the image belongs to. Example: `ami-0f4804aff4cf9c5a2` | string|
```

> | `osName` | The name of the OS distribution. Example: `rhel`. | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `osName` | The name of the OS distribution. Example: `rhel` | string |
```

Reviewer: Following examples like these, it makes sense to omit the period, which can be distracting or confused as being part of the parameter.

| `osVersion` | The version of the OS distribution. Example: `"8"` | string |

## Usage

Use the BYOOS pack when selecting the OS layer during the cluster profile creation. Use the following information to find the BYOOS pack.

> 

Reviewer: Add a break here.

Author: Added, thanks.

* Pack Type: OS
* Registry: Public Repo
* Pack Name: Bring Your Own OS (BYO-OS)
* Pack Version: 1.0.x or higher

<InfoBox>

Check out the [Create Cluster Profile](/cluster-profiles/task-define-profile/) guide to learn how to create a cluster profile.

</InfoBox>

<br/>

> Fill out the required parameters with information about your custom OS, such as the ID, OS distribution and version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out the required parameters with information about your custom OS, such as the ID, OS distribution, and version.
```

<br />

```yaml
pack:
  osImageOverride: "ami-0f4804aff4cf9c5a2"
  osName: "rhel"
  osVersion: "8"
```

<br />

  ![View of the cluster profile wizard](/clusters_byoos_image-builder_cluster-profile-byoos-yaml.png)

Check out the [Create Images with Image Builder](/cluster-profiles/byoos/image-builder/) guide to learn to create a custom image for Palette. 

---

<br />

> You can create custom OS images for the infrastructure provider you are using by using image creation tools. The following is a list of commonly used tools for creating a custom OS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image creation tools are available to help you create custom OS images for the infrastructure provider you are using. The following is a list of commonly used tools for creating a custom OS:
```

Reviewer: Trying to reduce two occurrences of "use".

---
title: "BYOOS"
metaTitle: "Bring your own OS"
metaDescription: "Customize your Edge host deployment with your own Operating System."
hiddenFromNav: true
type: "integration"
category: ["byoos"]
logoUrl: ""
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

> # Bring Your Own Operatin System (BYOOS) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS) 
```

> Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS) is a deployment option that allows you to customize the operating system of their environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bring Your Own Operating System (BYOOS) allows you to deploy and customize the OS in your environment, giving you greater flexibility and control over your infrastructure. 
```

This BYOOS feature optimizes infrastructure and streamlines workflow by enabling users to specify a host runtime operating system (OS), providing greater flexibility and control over their infrastructure. 

> BYOOS empowers you to deploy your preferred OS to your environments and tailor them to your specific needs using various customization tools. 

Reviewer: What if we combine a few points in line 17 and remove lines 18 and 20?

> Spectro Cloud offers BYOOS support for both Edge and non-Edge environments, allowing you to customize your environment's operating system (OS). You can reference the BYOOS pack in Terraform using a data resource, which can help optimize their workflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spectro Cloud offers BYOOS support for both Edge and non-Edge environments.
```

> Check out the guides to how to use BYOOS in Edge and Non-Edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to use BYOOS in Edge and non-Edge environments, check out the []() and [] () guides.
```

Reviewer: URLs are needed in the suggested markdown in line 24.

# Versions Supported

**1.0.x**

# Prerequisites 

> To use the Non-Edge BYOOS pack, you must have the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the non-Edge BYOOS pack, you must have the following:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br />
```

> - Access to a Non-Edge repository that contains the generic-byoi pack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to a non-Edge repository that contains the generic BYOOS pack.
```

Reviewer: @rahulhazra97 Thanks for adding the integration doc! According to our Packs Layout, this doc needs the following sections:

**Parameters**
**Usage** - this could be the section to explain some of the specific configuring users can do.
**Terraform**
**Resources**

For an example, you can look at https://docs.spectrocloud.com/integrations/kubernetes. 
Packs Layout: https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1800994817/Packs+Layout
